So, I walked in this room and everything is blue.
The floor is blue, the carpets are blue.
And when I was once in my garden in Kathmandu with Shri Mataji,
I was looking at Shri Mataji,
and then the shape of the garden started shivering around her.
And then I saw someone sitting and I saw a face there where she was.
And it's very, very hard to describe.
Because it was so beautiful.
And there was such a purity.
The purity was the beauty.
And it was an unbearable beauty.
After some time I could not look because I said I was not pure enough to look.
Because if we are in front of someone who is absolutely pure,
then our own impurity comes out.
Because of the light and the force of the purity.
So, and this face was actually was blue.
It was lavender blue.
So, I looked at the ground because I could not look anymore.
Then I looked up again.
And then Shri Mataji was sitting there in my garden.
And then I told Shri Mataji what happened.
And she said it was probably Shri Krishna.
So, it was blue.
And Shri Brahmadeva gave him a yellow dot.
Because yellow is the color of creativity.
So, blue and yellow.
Now, Vlodya is going to scold me because he is going to say that I am doing politics here.
Blue and yellow.
So, today we are in this blue and let us pray that we will be engulfed by the Puja, Pushve Krishna.
Because he is really the one we need to pray for the sort of situation in which we are.
So, we need to pray that we will be able to do something in this way.
That is Shri Krishna.
Yeah. So...
We need to understand what is important for us and what it is that we can do and what it is that we cannot do.
And what is our responsibility?
We have heard Shri Mataji this morning and it is of course difficult to speak after she spoke.
But thank God there is the lunch in between.
So, I just want to give you an idea of the pilgrimage on which we are.
Shri Mataji, you know, in the Bible it is written that Christ is the Alpha and the Omega.
And Shri Mataji said it is true.
So, the Alpha of Christ is Shri Ganesha.
The Omega of Christ is Shri Kalki.
And the turning point, the strategic turning point of this entire great game is the Agnya Chakra.
So, if I would be the devil, now contrary to what you may have heard, I am not the devil.
But if I would be the devil, I would attack when it is strategic.
So, there are two things that the devil is going to attack to prevent the Omega of history.
One thing that is going to attack very logically is our unity.
Because when I wrote the advent, I wrote something and then I asked Shri Mataji, is it true?
Do you know Shri Kalki as a horse and as a parrot?
So, I asked her about the horse and I asked her about the parrot.
So, I asked Shri Mataji, is it so that the collective consciousness of the yogis is the horse of Shri Kalki?
And she said yes, this is so.
So, please note, we are not Shri Kalki.
Some time ago, mad people thought they were Napoleon.
Now mad people in Sahaja Yoga think they are Kalki.
So, no, but the collective consciousness is the vahana.
So, the support of collective consciousness is the unity between the yogis.
So, obviously, the devil needs to attack our unity.
And as I told you, in the 80s, in the 70s it was the discovery.
In the 80s it was the expansion.
In the 90s we got attacked by outside power, like the power of the state, the Fegul rules, we got attacked from the outside.
And the first decade of the third millennium we got attacked from the inside, because for the first time we really became divided.
And this had to happen because we were tested.
And now in this decade in which we are now, it is time to emerge from the divisions.
Now when I speak about divisions, maybe you think about Russia and Ukraine.
But it is not just that. Maybe collectivities have been divided in the last 15 years or in the last 10 years.
Because here there is a lot of activity going on.
Because it is the last gate.
So the last gate has to be the most difficult, isn't it?
Sri Mataji said that the Shakti of Shrikalki is Mahamaya.
It's the power of illusion and confusion.
And this power is also of course on us, on me, on you, on the yogis.
Because she is going to test the matter.
Why is she testing the matter?
Please understand this is just logic.
She tests the matter because as we said in a seminar in Sopran,
the previous protocol of Kundalini awakening, that was the protocol given by Adi Shakti, was...
...was that the Kundalini is rising only when all the chakras are pure.
And the cheetah is pure.
And with us in Nargol in 1973, Mataji saw that if she would maintain this protocol, we would be lost.
Because we could not fit the criteria.
And she decided to change the protocol of the yogis.
She said that the second protocol is not true.
So she changed the protocol of the yogis.
So she changed her own protocol which was the binding, the deities and the Maharishis and the gurus and everybody.
She changed the protocol because in her incarnation as Shri Mataji Nirmala Devi,
she decided to give realization to people who were not ready, who were not prepared.
So when Gregoire gets his realization, he gets the certificate.
But Gregoire has not yet passed the exams.
Before you pass the exam and then you have the certificate.
Now we have the certificate but we need to pass the exam.
That's why after your realization there is a period of test.
Because only in this period of test we are obliged to introspect.
We are obliged to witness.
We are obliged to forgive.
And we are obliged to transform.
Because I am not a Sahaja Yogi if I say Shri Mataji instead of saying good morning.
I am not a Sahaja Yogi if I sing bhajan or if I go to bhujaz.
I am a Sahaja Yogi if I transform.
And this is the path between the Alpha and the Omega.
And we have to know which letter of the Greek alphabet.
Beta, Gamma, Kappa, Lambda, Epsilon.
Which letter are we?
That is our job to know.
It's our job to decline this alphabet.
Now some of you are sitting here and maybe not now because you had a good meditation
but otherwise you would be angry.
Because you don't understand what's happening to your country.
And you say, you know, why do you talk of love when I am under immigration?
Some of you feel that way.
And some of you wonder what can you do to help your country.
But your responsibility is first to help yourself.
If you want to help your country with political means you are an insignificant force.
Insignificant.
If you want to help yourself first and your country with your spiritual powers you can
be in Ukraine here a significant force.
But for this we need to understand how it works.
How do we access our spiritual powers.
So I apologize for those who have seen it already but I am going to draw again my little
magical triangle.
This is just to explain you something.
So let's say here is Mr. A.
And Mr. A has a problem B. And that can be for instance that someone
in Maidan will find or feel that everybody in Kharkov are terrorists or it may mean that
someone in Luang feel that everybody in Luang are fascists.
Okay so they have a problem.
Right?
Now they have a problem and they want to solve the problem.
So they apply themselves to solve the problem.
Or maybe if you think this is too political let's say you have a problem and you have
a bad dentist.
Alright?
So you can relax.
Or you have a bad boss in the office.
Okay it's easier.
So if I try to solve here between A and B I go into action reaction.
So I give Bandhan to my boss.
I should beat my boss.
Or I should beat the people in Kharkov or in Luang.
And I throw them in the haven.
Because I think this is using the sahaj power.
Right?
But it is not.
Because I am in the mood of reactivity which is below the aghia chakra.
So now what is the...
Try to understand because it's for you it's not for me.
It's really important you understand that because you suffer in this country.
And as yogi you need to emerge from suffering.
So now the alternative is that I have my problem with my boss A.B.
But I turn to C.
And C you can call C.
Of course C is thoughtlessness.
C is turning to the divine power.
Connecting to Shri Mataji.
Abandoning our problem to the great most powerful computer in the universe.
Shri Mataji explained this morning how to do that.
That if I do that and this is where you start shifting.
I start shifting my attention.
Because instead of coming back home with pain in the stomach because my boss is a media
and I am upset.
As I am upset I go down in my yoga.
I am angry I go down in my yoga.
I hate him I go down in my yoga.
So...
The first advantage is that by doing that as a yogi, because this is exerting my spiritual power,
not in reactivity, but this, because Agnya is here.
So there is a big thing which is happening, big thing which is happening for me,
is that I start to detach.
I'm not telling you not to be patriotic, but you don't tell if you suffer.
You don't tell if you lose your spiritual powers.
So when you go into that mode of detachment, many things happen.
The first win which happen is that you get your freedom from.
You get your freedom from the problem.
The problem is still there.
They are still killing each other in the east of your country.
You still have corruption in your government.
There are still spies in your army.
But that problem is not your problem.
Because you have risen in your consciousness, like you rise from the valley on the top of the mountain,
and you see things, and when you see things, things are away from you.
Now why is this important?
Because if you remain stuck here with your little Agnya completely blocked,
you are an user.
And you want to be a winner.
And to be a winner on the spiritual battlefield, you need to climb up here.
And don't stay here.
Now comes the magic.
Because magic exists.
So that's the first win.
Now the magic is the second win.
And the magic is that if I have reached that level,
which has to be seen on an empirical level, sometimes we do, sometimes we don't.
But if I have reached this level, then that power appears, starts working on the problem.
So for instance, in my example where I have a bad boss,
suddenly my boss is promoted somewhere else.
And I have no boss who should meet anymore, the next one is very nice.
You have not done anything.
You have gone to your mother.
And something happened.
Now for this to happen to your kind friend,
you need one thing.
You need many things.
First of all,
don't be upset with Vlodia.
If you think it's too sweet,
if you think there should be more pepper and more piment and more anger,
because Vlodia wants to keep all of you together.
Not only that, but he understands that your collectivity is part of Elagia's collectivity.
He also understands that Shri Mataji did love her children in Russia and her children in Ukraine.
Now you have forces of negativity which are creating this split between brothers, between sisters.
And as yogi, we need in our being to desire to help the legacy of unity in our Sangha,
so that we are an effective collective instrument.
Because if you in Ukraine are united as Sangha, then you start having spiritual powers.
And then perhaps the second wind might happen.
Now you notice I'm not yet talking about politics.
Now there is another Ukrainian word that I understood in the presentation of Vlodia.
And it's the word politics.
And I'm sure he said we don't want to do politics here.
I just want to tell you, you know who has invented politics?
Who has invented politics?
No, not the TV. No, no, no, no.
You see, those who have brought...
Someone said Shri Krishna, yes, you would say.
But, you know, those who have taught politics to mankind,
there are two adigurus which have influenced tremendously the evolution of the world.
You have Confucius in China.
And a lot of Confucius is about the science of governance.
And the other one who is our guru is Socrates.
He is the one who has invented democracy.
So yesterday I was with one of our friends, I don't know whether he is here,
he was saying that he is fully Ukrainian and his friend was saying,
no, no, you are fully Russian.
And he was saying democracy is demonocracy.
Now we can talk about this another time.
But what I'm trying to say is that politics also brings solutions.
When enlightened people do politics.
Because politics in Greek means a city.
And politics is the art of keeping the city together.
Now again, I cannot solve the problem, Ukraine-Russia, okay?
I am ignorant, I am an idiot, I am a little baby in the world of my mother, I cannot.
But I'm just going to give you some ideas of a direction.
So let us move to the next step.
What is the place of Ukraine in this drama?
So you have not very good, I didn't see very well, my rounds are not so round.
So you have left and right.
Now you have China.
Isn't it interesting that for the two panels of the idea you have two superpowers?
Okay, now you know, I told you this already, the two panels,
you know, Shri Mahaliram on the left, Shri Buddha on the right.
And now we open the two panels of the idea.
So, you know, I have gone to the two last national seminars in China.
And I told them that, and this is also the inheritance of Confucius,
who speaks about the superior man, who is basically the realized soul.
I told them that faith is terribly important.
Now it is not the faith of the fanatics below the ajna chakra,
it's not the faith of the fundamentalists,
it's the faith based on the living experience of feeling the Atman.
Feeling the vibrations, feeling satchitananda, knowing that God is with us.
So I told our Chinese brothers and sisters that in the past the emperor of China was the son of heaven.
But now you all are the sons and the daughters of Adi Shakti,
so you all are sakshat, the sons and the daughters of heaven.
And if you have faith in this, then you are going to be so powerful spiritually.
So, and China is not doing badly by the way compared to Russia.
So here is faith.
I could take a little bit more time to explain but it takes too much time with the translation.
Because all these things work above the ajna.
Under the ajna, then the Tsar of Russia, seeing that he is an autocrat by the grace of God.
Or the king of France, seeing that he is a divine right king, why he is very licentious?
This faith below the ajna is destructive.
Because it is falsehood.
And that's why faith is so destructive.
With a Muslim fundamentalist for instance.
But faith above the ajna is not falsehood, it is reality.
So it is constructive.
Now what about Russia?
And then what about Ukraine, right?
Now I'm not telling you to believe me.
I'm not telling you this is what Shri Mataji taught me.
I propose you a vision.
An auspicious vision.
You know auspicious vision is called sudarshan.
And sudarshan is the discus of Shri Krishna.
And so today we are having the puja where we worship that's a faith.
Where we worship Sakshat Shri Krishna in Shri Mataji.
So back to Russia, surrender.
Now what does surrender mean?
Surrender is the most important thing.
Now what does surrender mean for Russia?
Well it means Russia needs to relax.
Russia needs to relax.
It is not so much a belief that Russia needs to relax.
It is not true that the entire West hates Russia.
It is not true.
It is not true that Western sahaja yogi don't love Russian sahaja yogi.
It is not true that you have to keep everything under control all the time.
Surrender is an act of freedom.
Because, understand that if there are Russians.
Because you trust enough to surrender.
Trust.
The conflict between Russia and Ukraine is completely negative.
And as yogi in our heart of hearts we need to wish and pray that this absurdity, this plot of satan be brought to an end.
This plot of satan be brought to an end.
So, now we are in Krita yoga.
Do you know what is Krita yoga?
You have Krita yoga, the age of darkness and you have satya yoga at a new age.
In between there is a tunnel.
And in the tunnel is called Krita yoga.
And in the tunnel everything gets exposed.
So everything which doesn't work in the world comes out.
So this is why you get depressed by watching the news.
Because it is a mad house all over the place.
The Europeans they are dealing with 1.7 million refugees from the middle east.
While the population, the civil population are being bombed.
They are unable until now to handle that.
So also you should not count on Europe to be the savior of the situation here.
Because Europe is up to here in its own problems.
So Krita yoga exposes things and Krita yoga moves things, shakes up things.
So it exerts pressure on the agar.
So again I wish I could do a little nice.
Yeah good, you get the idea.
So now in this vision Ukraine is the left side of the right agar.
And so with the pressure from Krita yoga on the right and the left agar.
You have a new space which is created.
And this is Ukraine.
Why not a battle with Belorussia, why not invade Kazakhstan or Uzbekistan, why Ukraine?
Because we need to open the agar chakra.
And if it is true that Ukraine is the place of the mother.
And if it is true that you worship the mother before the Christian era and you knew about Kundalini.
Then you have a heritage which is special.
So what should you do?
If you arise in your spiritual power and you activate the power of faith.
It has to be faith in yourself.
Faith in yourself means that you don't just look at what all the others are doing wrong out there.
You look at yourself.
You look at yourself as a spiritual being and you focus on going up here.
Because this is where you find the reason to have faith in yourself.
Because with faith you have trust.
With faith you have connection with the Divine.
And with faith you don't need to react.
And if you can achieve this at the spiritual level.
Then you can have an impact at the central level of Russia.
Now if you listen to me mentally you will say this is a tale for little children.
It is irrelevant in the present condition.
This guy should go and see how many people died in the border with Luang and Karkov and those places.
But remember I have invited you not to look at it from that perspective.
Because from that perspective you cannot do anything.
I invite you to become that we become master of ourselves.
Because we cannot master the situation.
And so I have faith in yourself as people, I have faith in yourself as a nation.
But without aggressivity. Because aggressivity is a reaction.
And we have to say that you are a leader, a leader in the nation and a leader in the world.
And you have to be aggressive.
I would like to ask you a question.
What is the question?
If somebody who come in my house to kill me, should I love this person?
What would you do? Would you love this person?
My answer would be if somebody come in my house to kill me, what I would try to do is to kill that person first.
But without hate. We cannot afford to hate.
If we hate we lose our spiritual powers and then the devil has won his blood.
I was with Sri Mataji at a program for generals and colonels at the army chief of staff of the south and command in India in Pune.
I was with Sri Mataji at a program for generals and colonels at the army chief of staff of the south and command in Pune.
And I was with Sri Mataji at a program for generals and colonels at the army chief of staff of the south and command in Pune.
Which means a quick liberation from the difficulties of existence.
So this is a nice attitude, isn't it? There is no hate.
So aggression is wrong. Accepting aggression is wrong.
But don't ever think that Russians are a people who are your enemies. Because then you follow exactly where the devil wants you to follow.
If you would know how much Sri Mataji loved both Ukrainian and Russian you would not let hate in your heart.
Because what we need to do is fight negativity. Not fight with the ABC or these people or that people.
It's quite a difficult subject. Did I manage to make myself understood?
So if you have faith in yourself, you are strong enough to love. But you don't accept aggression.
And from that then respect will come. There are political solutions to the problem.
But I can't allow you to speak about politics.
You know, my job in the United Nations was to put countries together, not people.
So there is always a way.
But the other vlogger who is sitting here, he likes to have secrets. So I will not tell you what is the political situation.
Or the political solution.
So...
But you know, do you have...
You are so important. Try to rise.
One day in Italy Sri Mataji said, 50% of Sahaja Yogis are mediocre. 25% are idiots.
And the rest I don't know.
I, at that time, I hoped to be in the I don't know category.
But on reflection I was probably in the mediocre one.
Why? If we look at ourselves, what is the state of our attention?
Are we thinking all the time? Or do we have the shakti of chitta nirod?
That we can take back our attention within ourselves.
Because this is the way we can go up on the side of the triangle.
You see, detachment is very important because detachment is what allows us to go into nirvikalva.
Complete detachment in the attention.
Complete freedom of the attention.
Complete silence.
And then this is the toria state.
And then with that we can bring the shishiva in the vivata.
Because the brain is the vivata.
So today when we have the puja, let us pray for our poor, poor brains.
Sri Krishna is the right, is the deity of the brain.
See, the heart is the organ of the left side, the liver the organ of the right side, but the brain is the organ of evolution.
And the Mahalakshmi force on the central channel, she pushes us into pure freedom.
And this is Hegel who inspired Marx, Engels and Lenin. Poor things.
Hegel said that the purpose of history is the world spirit actualizing its complete freedom.
Freedom from ignorance. Freedom from the enemies of the soul in the human consciousness.
This is our journey. This is our battlefield. Not gluonsk.
And Hegel, who is the one who inspired Marx, Engels, and Lenin,
said that the power of the shishiva is the power of the mind.
The power of the mind is the power of the mind.
Okay. Any questions?
Thank you.
The question is that this intersection of two circles that you draw,
is it like your vision of that, the mission of Ukraine is to expand this area of what is like from a technical perspective,
what is your feeling about it?
I wish I could say that I am the teacher in the class.
And the teacher is a problem to the students and it is up to the students to solve the problem.
But I cannot say that because I am not your teacher, I am your brother.
So, you see, if you are an ancient spiritual land, and Shri Mataji said that you are an ancient spiritual land,
and if you are Sahaja Yogis, you need to have a spiritual vision, not a political one.
So, to see yourself separated is not in the logic of collective consciousness.
If you activate your spiritual potential, what we must pray is that somehow from here, not from here,
the divide will impact on the situation.
And one condition for a solution is mutual respect.
One needs to return to mutual respect.
And you are Russian and Ukrainian?
I am Russian and Ukrainian, but I am not a citizen of the United States.
You know, in South America you have the Reconciliation and Truth Commission.
In South Africa, there was a time of Mandela. Of course, we don't have Mandela.
But what happened is that the people were the security force of apartheid, and the Africans that they tortured,
they met together around the table, and they said what they had on their heart on both sides, and then they agreed to reconcile.
So, you know, if there is a change of heart, these processes can help.
Also, if you have a diversity in your country, you can have a state structure which reflects the diversity.
For instance, in Germany, what is the name of Germany? Germany is not called Germany.
Germany is called Wundesrepublikdeutschland, the Federal Republic of Germany.
What it means is that you have a federal state, but then you have land with autonomous fiscal responsibilities,
autonomous rights in several fields, including security, including education.
It works in Germany. It works in the United States.
And in my country, we have four official languages, and nobody cares about it.
So you need to get out of down here and be reactive to a situation, take some altitude and look,
or your elites should look at intelligent solutions.
But I'm not saying that I give you a solution, because I don't know what the solution is.
What I'm saying is you guys, you ladies, you will have to find what is the solution.
But before you can find a solution, you need to be at the level where you can impact the parent's identity.
So it is very tough. I know it is a very tough place to be.
But the world is going to be a very tough place in many, many, many areas of the world.
In a hundred years or so, Bangladesh is probably going to be under the waters.
And can you see how much migrants that will send to India?
So we need to shape up.
Because this movement here, this pressure obliges to shape up.
And evolution is the survival of the fetus.
But now it's going to be the survival of the spiritually fetus.
So we need to relax.
Because someone else is running the show.
Any other question?
There is an incident, we have one more question.
This is from Tanya, from Slovakia.
She is from Czech.
What is his name?
I don't know.
Young? Young. Young.
Young.
I have a question.
You have a big smile.
Yes, you have a smile.
I can't read it.
I have a lot of thoughts.
I want to ask you a question.
What is your most important thing?
What is important?
I don't know what I'm going to say.
But important is saying both.
Important is saying both.
You speak of respect.
And you said that without respect we can't approach each other.
But respect is love, in fact.
Yes, that's right.
And you said that without respect we can't approach each other.
But respect is love, in fact.
Yes, that's right.
If we have no respect, then there is no love.
If there are any misunderstandings, any language questions, any language misunderstandings, then there is no respect, there is no love.
And Shri Mataji says,
And Shri Mataji said, and Haddad, in our mantra book.
What is asking, what is the question?
Just a couple of things.
I would like to ask you,
how do you feel about our relationship with our society?
What do you think about the relationship between our society and our society?
The question is, how can we love our mother so much that we see our mother in the faces of our sisters and brothers?
That we imagine our mother in the place of our sisters and brothers?
If you want to meet someone, you need to go to this place where that person lives.
Okay, if you want to meet me, you have to come into my house.
If you want to meet your mother, you have to go into her house.
Okay, if you want to meet her, you have to come into her house.
You know, on the side of love, you have many, many, many expressions of feelings.
On the side of hate, you have many expressions of feelings.
So, introspection helps us doing the selection.
So, introspection is, you know, the toolbox.
Okay, I'm just wondering whether you allow me to go on holiday now?
I just wanted to talk about this, not so many other things.
I would like to talk about the relationship between our sisters and brothers.
In Prakash, when it was a problem, you talked about the notion of hope.
And actually that was the question of the brother.
Maybe if you could elaborate on that, if you feel so.
But you see, if you wanted me to elaborate on these things, you should not have put this video this morning.
Because Jan asked a very good question, but I felt that mother spoke about this during the speech this morning.
Also, you know, I feel if we have a pudra tonight, then now we can relax a little bit and, you know, talk a bit.
And the Semina can continue tomorrow.
So, Engelbert, you lead this short meditation of Wolfgang.
Thank you.